---
layout: post
title: git tips 1
creation-date: 2012-07-01  8:46:24
---
I'll show some tips like usage, configuration and thought of mine for git.

First of all, it's better to configure aliases with with ~/.gitconfig based on [~/gitconfig](#gitconfig)
because I'll notate with my aliases of git sub-commands.

### How to ref to each commit
All commits of git are node of linked list which has parent node apart from initial commit.
Merged commit has two parents. It's easy to learn for programmers =)

* `git diff HEAD^` shows
    

**T.B.D**


### Branching
Easy branching.

    $ git co -b spike

This is a shorthand of blew commands.

    $ git branch spike
    $ git checkout spike

If you want a branch which its old history is dropped, you can use `--orphan` option.

    $ git co --orphan new-history

It makes a new branch which all files are staged.
If you commit them, simply `$ git ci -m "initial commit"`, The new history will start.


### Arrangement of history with rebase --interactive
`rebase --interactive` is so powerful command to modify your commit history,
but it may let you miss your important commit and get confused
if you don't know right way to use the command.

I just only introduce my use-case I frequently use.

**T.B.D**


### ~/.gitconfig
As ~/.gitconfig, you can make your git settings. For example, this is mine.

    [alias]
    ci = commit
    st = status
    co = checkout
    br = branch
    lg = log --graph --pretty=format:'%Cred%h%Creset - %an - %C(yellow)%d%Creset %s %Cgreen(%cr)%Creset' --abbrev-commit --date=relative
    sb = show-branch
    diffst = diff --stat=200,100

    [user]
    email = xxxxxxxx@xxxxxxxxxxxx
    name = Tomotaka Sakuma

    [color]
    status = auto
    branch = auto
    tag = auto
    commit = auto
    diff = auto
    interactive = auto
    ui = auto

    [github]
    user = tmtk75
    token = xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

